---
title: FISL 14
date: 2013-07-09T14:02:45+00:00
layout: post
permalink: /2013/07/09/fisl-14/
image: /wp-content/uploads/2013/07/fisl.png
categories:
  - Free Software
  - General
  - Mozilla
  - Travel
  - Archived
tags:
  - brazil
  - career
  - community
  - conference
  - firefox
  - fisl
  - Free Software
  - hackathon
  - mozilla
  - open source
  - planet
  - speaker
  - talk
---
[FISL](http://www.fisl.org.br) has always been a special conference to me. I
attended it for the first time about 9 years ago while I was still a grad
student. And I continued to attend it until I moved abroad in 2006. It was a
period when the Free Software movement was starting to take shape in Brazil and
it was definitely one of the first conferences that gave me a clearer sense of
what it means to be part of a _community_.

For this reason, I was thrilled to be invited to speak at FISL this year. I
gave two talks—both in Portuguese. The first one was called _Reflections on a
Career in Open Source_
([video](http://hemingway.softwarelivre.org/fisl14/high/41b/sala41b-high-201307041801.ogg),
 83.3MB, CC-BY-SA) and the second one was called _Firefox for Android: Past,
Present, and Future_
([video](http://hemingway.softwarelivre.org/fisl14/high/41b/sala41b-high-201307051102.ogg),
 69.5MB, CC-BY-SA).

This was also a great opportunity to meet a lot of people from the Mozilla
community in Brazil. Mozilla had a solid presence at the conference because of
their hard work. Besides all the talks covering different Mozilla initiatives,
there was a Firefox OS apps hackathon and a few SUMO sprints—both had
pretty good attendance.

Attending FISL this year has been a rather nostalgic experience. Just crossing
the main entrance brought up some vivid memories from my first FISLs. A lot has
changed in the conference: new faces, new projects, larger audience, etc. But
the atmosphere is still the same: thousands of people sharing their passion for
software freedom.

I really hope I can attend FISL next year.
