---
title: Firefox for Android in 2013
date: 2013-12-10T17:15:43+00:00
layout: post
permalink: /2013/12/10/firefox-for-android-in-2013/
image: /wp-content/uploads/2013/12/firefox2013.png
categories:
  - Android
  - Free Software
  - General
  - Mozilla
  - Software
  - Archived
tags:
  - "2013"
  - "2014"
  - android
  - community
  - fennec
  - firefox
  - Free Software
  - Mobile
  - mozilla
  - open source
  - planet
  - release
  - ui
---
Since our [big
rewrite](http://lucasr.org/2012/06/26/new-firefox-for-android-released/) last
year, we've released new features of all sizes and shapes in [Firefox for
Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.mozilla.firefox)—as
well as tons of bug fixes, of course. The feedback has been _amazingly_
positive.

This was a year of consolidation for us, and I think we've succeeded in getting
Firefox for Android in a much better place in the mobile browser space. We've
gone from an (embarrassing) 3.5 average rating on Google Play to a solid 4.4 in
just over a year (!). And we're wrapping up 2013 as a pre-installed browser in
a [few
devices](https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2013/11/07/firefox-for-android-included-on-new-devices-to-bring-an-amazing-web-experience-to-users/)—hopefully
the first of many!

We've just
[released](https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2013/12/10/new-home-screen-in-firefox-for-android-access-your-information-in-a-single-tap/)
Firefox for Android 26 today, our last release this year. This is my favourite
release _by a mile_. Besides bringing a much better UX, the [new Home
screen](https://blog.mozilla.org/ux/2013/10/the-all-new-home-on-firefox-for-android-beta/)
lays the ground for some of the most exciting stuff we'll be releasing next
year.

A lot of what we do in Firefox for Android is so incremental that it's
sometimes hard to see how all the releases add up. If you haven't tried Firefox
for Android yet, here is my personal list of things that I believe sets it
apart from the crowd.

### All your stuff, one tap

The new Home in Firefox for Android 26 gives you instant access to all your
data (history, bookmarks, reading list, top sites) through a fluid set of
swipable pages. They are easily accessible at any time—when the app starts,
when you create a new tab, or when you tap on the location bar.

You can always search your browsing data by tapping on the location bar. As an
extra help, we also show search suggestions from your default search engine as
well as auto-completing domains you've visited before. You'll usually find what
you're looking for by just typing a couple of letters.


{% include figure.html src="/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/home.png"
caption="Top Sites, History, and Search." %}

### Great for reading

Firefox for Android does a couple of special things for readers. Every time you
access a page with long-form content—such as a news article or an essay—we
offer you an option to switch to _Reader Mode_.

Reader Mode removes all the visual clutter from the original page and presents
the content in a distraction-free UI—where you can set your own text size and
color scheme for comfortable reading. This is especially useful on mobile
browsers as there are still many websites that don't provide a mobile-friendly
layout.

{% include figure.html src="/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/reader.png"
caption="Reader Mode in Firefox for Android." %}

Secondly, we bundle nice default fonts for web content. This makes a subtle yet
noticeable difference on a lot of websites.

Last but not least, we make it very easy to save content to read later—either
by adding pages to Firefox's reading list or by using our [quickshare
feature](https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2013/09/17/its-easier-to-share-your-favorite-web-content-with-firefox-for-android/)
to save it to your favourite app, such as Pocket or Evernote.

### Make it yours

Add-ons are big in desktop Firefox. And we want Firefox for Android to be no
different. We provide several [JavaScript
APIs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Add-ons/Firefox_for_Android) that
allow developers to extend the browser with new features. As a user, you can
benefit from add-ons like [Adblock
Plus](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/android/addon/adblock-plus/) and
[Lastpass](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/android/addon/lastpass-password-manager/).

If you're into blingy UIs, you can install some [lightweight
themes](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/android/themes/). Furthermore, you can
install and use any web search engine of your choice.

{% include figure.html src="/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/makeityours.png"
caption="Lightweight theme, Add-ons, and Search Engines." %}

### Smooth panning and zooming

An all-new panning and zooming framework was built as part of the big native
rewrite last year. The main focus areas were performance and reliability. The
(mobile) graphics team has released
[major](http://benoitgirard.wordpress.com/2012/05/15/off-main-thread-compositing-omtc-and-why-it-matters/)
[improvements](http://chrislord.net/index.php/2012/10/17/progressive-tile-rendering/)
since then and some of this framework is going to be shared across most (if not
all) platforms soon.

From a user perspective, this means you get consistently smooth panning and
zooming in Firefox for Android.

### Fast-paced development

We develop Firefox for Android through a series of fast-paced 6-week
[development
cycles](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Release_Management/Release_Process). In each
cycle, we try to keep a balance between general housekeeping (bug fixes and
polishing) and new features. This means you get a better browser every
6 weeks.

### Open and transparent

Firefox for Android is the only _truly_ open-source mobile browser. There, I
said it. We're a community of paid staff and volunteers. We're always mentoring
new contributors. Our [roadmap](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Mobile/Roadmap) is
public. Everything we're working on is being proposed, reviewed, and discussed
in [Bugzilla](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org) and our [mailing
list](https://mail.mozilla.org/listinfo/mobile-firefox-dev). Let us know if
you'd like to [get involved](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Mobile/Get_Involved) by
the way :-)

That's it. I hope this post got you curious enough to try Firefox for Android
today. Do we still have work to do? _Hell yeah._ While 2013 was a year of
consolidation, I expect 2014 to be the year of excitement and expansion for
Firefox on Android. This means we'll have to set an even higher bar in terms of
quality and, at the same time, make sure we're always working on features our
users actually care about.

2014 will be awesome. Can't wait! In the meantime, [install Firefox for
Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.mozilla.firefox) and
let us know what you think!
